##**svFSI** Guide

<strong>svFSI</strong> is an open-source multi-physics finite element solver. It provides rich features for general computational studies of diffusion, heat transfer, incompressible viscous fluid, nonlinear elastodynamics, fluid-structure interaction and electrophysiology. It also specializes in computational modeling of the whole heart dynamics. As part of the [**SimCardio**](http://simvascular.github.io/docsSimCardio.html) project, <strong>svFSI</strong> is capable of simulating myocardial electrical activity using state-of-the-art cellular activation models, employing nonlinear hyperelastic material models to simulate tissue mechanics and activation coupling strategies, and performing large deformation fluid-structure interaction to simulate the dynamics between the heart tissue and blood flow. <strong>svFSI</strong> could also be used to perform blood flow simulations by imposing the ventricular wall motion extracted from medical image data.

<strong>svFSI</strong> is compatible with several mesh formats and can read a wide range of 2D and 3D element types. <strong>svFSI</strong> could be coupled to <a href="https://trilinos.github.io/index.html">Trilinos</a> linear solver library providing a wide choice of linear solvers and preconditioners for various applications. The methods employed are widely popular among the scientific community and continue to evolve through research and development. The solver is parallelized using MPI for inter-process communication and was demonstrated to scale efficiently on large supercomputing clusters. ParMETIS is used for partitioning the computational domains. Simulation results are outputted into VTK format that can be easily visualized in the free software <a href="https://www.paraview.org"> Paraview</a>. Details on how to be obtain and use **svFSI** is documented below.