# Cardiac Mechanics Modeling #

Human heart is an intrinsic multiphysics system. It's normal function requires synchronization and coupling of cardiac electrophysiology, tissue (myocardium) mechanics, and hemodynamics. Among the three physics, cardiac mechanics plays a central role, as it serves as the bridge between electrophysiology and blood flow. In a physiological setting, the myocardial cells (myocytes) in the heart tissue initiate and propagate an electrical impulse (action potential) that travels through the heart and drives the contraction of the cardiac muscle, which, in turn, propels the blood to sustain whole body circulation.

**svFSI** is a new multi-physics finite element solver designed for computational modeling of the whole heart dynamics. As the next generation underlining solver for the **SimVascular** software, **svFSI** is capable of simulating myocardial electrical activity using state-of-the-art cellular activation models, employ nonlinear hyperelastic material models to simulate tissue mechanics and activation coupling strategies, and perform large deformation fluid-structure interaction (FSI) to simulate the dynamics between heart tissue and blood flow. **svFSI** is compatible with several mesh formats and can read a wide range of 2D and 3D element types. The methods employed are widely popular among the scientific community and continue to evolve through research and development. The solver is parallelized using MPI for inter-process communication and was demonstrated to scale efficiently on large supercomputing clusters. ParMETIS is used for partitioning the computational domains. Simulation results are outputted into VTK format that can be easily visualized in the free software <a href="https://www.paraview.org"> Paraview</a>. In this document, we focus on demonstrating **svFSI**'s capability of cardiac mechanics modeling.
